[docs] Add privacyManifests guide (#28213)
expo/expo: docs/pages/guides/apple-privacy.mdx

---
title: Configuring iOS Privacy Manifests
description: Learn about configuring iOS privacy manifests for your mobile app.
---

> If you're using one of React Native or Expo libraries that use one of the "restricted reason" APIs, you'll need to configure an iOS privacy manifest to declare why you're including native code calling those APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using a native iOS library that uses a "restricted reason" APIs, you'll need to configure an iOS privacy manifest to declare why you're including native code calling those APIs.
```

More details and a list of "required reason" APIs can be found in the [Apple Developer Documentation](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/bundleresources/privacy_manifest_files).

> > Note:
> > The information and steps included in this document are still in development and may change, either due to new tools built for this purpose or changes in Apple's requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** The information and steps included in this document are still in development and may change, either due to new tools built for this purpose or new requirements from Apple.
```

## What is a Privacy Manifest?

> A privacy manifest is a file named `PrivacyInfo.xcprivacy` that is included in your iOS native project. This file is used to declare why you're including native code that calls certain APIs that Apple considers sensitive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A privacy manifest is a file named **PrivacyInfo.xcprivacy** that is included in your iOS native project. This file is used to declare why the app includes native code that calls into certain APIs that Apple considers sensitive.
```

> Those APIs currently include accessing UserDefaults, file timestamp APIs, system boot time APIs, disk space APIs and active keyboard APIs, but Apple considers it an open list that can be expanded in the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Those APIs currently include accessing UserDefaults, file timestamp APIs, system boot time APIs, disk space APIs, and active keyboard APIs. Apple considers it an open list that can be expanded in the future.
```

> ## Including an iOS Privacy Manifest in Expo Managed Apps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configuration in app.json/app.config.js
```

Reviewer: using a consistent title here with what we use in reference pages, eg: https://docs.expo.dev/versions/latest/sdk/camera/#configuration-in-appjsonappconfigjs

> If you're using an Expo managed app, you can include an iOS privacy manifest by adding a `privacyManifests` field to your `app.json` file, under the `expo.ios` keys. This requires Expo SDK 50 or later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can include an iOS privacy manifest by using the `privacyManifests` field under `expo.ios` in your app config.
```

> Here's an example of how you can include a privacy manifest in your `app.json` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example app.json with `privacyManifests` config
```

```json
{
  "expo": {
    "name": "My App",
    "slug": "my-app",
    // other fields...
    "ios": {
      "privacyManifests": {
        "NSPrivacyAccessedAPITypes": [
          {
            "NSPrivacyAccessedAPIType": "NSPrivacyAccessedAPICategoryUserDefaults",
            "NSPrivacyAccessedAPITypeReasons": ["CA92.1"]
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

You can identify the `NSPrivacyAccessedAPITypes` and `NSPrivacyAccessedAPITypeReasons` values by looking at the [Apple Developer Documentation](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/bundleresources/privacy_manifest_files/describing_use_of_required_reason_api).

> > Warning:
> > Make sure you have updated your Expo SDK packages to latest versions for your SDK version using `npx expo install --fix`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Warning:** Make sure you have updated your Expo SDK packages to latest versions for your SDK version using `npx expo install --fix`.
```

### Including required reasons for Expo SDK packages and other 3rd party libraries

> As of now, Apple does not correcly parse all the `PrivacyInfo` files included by static cocoapods dependencies (like Expo SDK packages and other ecosystem packages). This means that you may need to include the required reasons for the APIs used by those dependencies in your app's `PrivacyInfo.xcprivacy` file or the configuration in your `app.json`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of now, Apple does not correctly parse all the **PrivacyInfo** files included by static CocoaPods dependencies (such as Expo SDK packages and other ecosystem packages). This means that you may need to include the required reasons for the APIs used by those dependencies in your app's **PrivacyInfo.xcprivacy** file or the configuration in your **app.json**.
```

> All Expo SDK packages that use "required reason" APIs file have a `PrivacyInfo` file included in the package directory. [Here's an example privacy info file]](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/packages/expo-application/ios/PrivacyInfo.xcprivacy) included with the `expo-application` package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All Expo SDK packages that use "required reason" APIs file have a **PrivacyInfo** file included in the package directory. [Here's an example privacy info file]](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/packages/expo-application/ios/PrivacyInfo.xcprivacy) included with the `expo-application` package.
```

> You can usually identify the required reasons for the APIs used by other 3rd party libraries by checking if the package you intend to use has a `PrivacyInfo.xcprivacy` file in the `node_modules/package_name/ios` directory. If it does, you can check the `NSPrivacyAccessedAPITypes` and `NSPrivacyAccessedAPITypeReasons` values in that file and copy those values to your configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can usually identify the required reasons for the APIs used by other 3rd party libraries by checking if the package you intend to use has a **PrivacyInfo.xcprivacy** file in the **node_modules/package_name/ios** directory. If it does, you can check the `NSPrivacyAccessedAPITypes` and `NSPrivacyAccessedAPITypeReasons` values in that file and copy those values to your configuration.
```

> As an alternative, Apple notifies developers after they submit a build with missing privacy manifest files or specific reasons, so you can wait until you receive a notification email from Apple and then include the required reasons listed in the email in your app's `PrivacyInfo.xcprivacy` file or the configuration in your `app.json` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an alternative, Apple notifies developers after they submit a build with missing privacy manifest files or specific reasons, so you can wait until you receive a notification email from Apple and then include the required reasons listed in the email in your app's **PrivacyInfo.xcprivacy** file (if you don't use [CNG](/workflow/continuous-native-generation/)) or the configuration in your **app.json** file.
```

> ## Including an iOS Privacy Manifest in Bare Expo Apps

Reviewer: maybe we can follow this pattern? https://docs.expo.dev/versions/latest/sdk/camera/#are-you-using-this-library-in-a

---
title: Privacy Manifests
description: Learn about configuring iOS privacy manifests for your mobile app.
---

import { ConfigReactNative } from '~/components/plugins/ConfigSection';

> If you're using a native iOS library that uses a "restricted reason" APIs, you'll need to configure an iOS privacy manifest to declare why you're including native code calling those APIs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you're using a native iOS library that uses a "restricted reason" APIs, you'll need to configure an iOS privacy manifest to declare why you're including native code to call those APIs.
```

More details and a list of "required reason" APIs can be found in the [Apple Developer Documentation](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/bundleresources/privacy_manifest_files).

> > **info** The information and steps included in this document are still in development and may change, either due to new tools built for this purpose or new requirements from Apple.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **info** The information and steps included in this guide are still in development and may change due to new tools built for this purpose or new requirements from Apple.
```
- Let's make the message of this callout a bit more clear.
- I think we could move the callout at the top of this page because it conveys this message as the first thing when a user visits this page and hence does not miss it.

## What is a Privacy Manifest?

A privacy manifest is a file named **PrivacyInfo.xcprivacy** that is included in your iOS native project. This file is used to declare why the app includes native code that calls into certain APIs that Apple considers sensitive.

> Those APIs currently include accessing UserDefaults, file timestamp APIs, system boot time APIs, disk space APIs, and active keyboard APIs. Apple considers it an open list that can be expanded in the future.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These APIs currently include accessing UserDefaults, file timestamp, system boot time, disk space, and active keyboard. Apple considers it an open list that can be expanded in the future.
```

- Let's remove APIs after each API name, it's redundant since we mention that they are APIs as the first thing in the sentence.

## Configuration in app.json/app.config.js

You can include an iOS privacy manifest by using the `privacyManifests` field under `expo.ios` in your app config.

### Example app.json with `privacyManifests` config

> ```json

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```json app.json
````

{
  "expo": {
    "name": "My App",
    "slug": "my-app",

>     // other fields...

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    /* @hide ... */ /* @end */
```

- We can use our other fields annotation here instead of explicitly mentioning other fields.

    "ios": {
      "privacyManifests": {
        "NSPrivacyAccessedAPITypes": [
          {
            "NSPrivacyAccessedAPIType": "NSPrivacyAccessedAPICategoryUserDefaults",
            "NSPrivacyAccessedAPITypeReasons": ["CA92.1"]
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

<ConfigReactNative>

You can include an iOS privacy manifest in a bare Expo app by creating a **PrivacyInfo.xcprivacy** file using Xcode and adding it to your iOS app target.

> Follow [this guide](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/bundleresources/privacy_manifest_files) to create a **PrivacyInfo.xcprivacy** file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Follow [Apple's Privacy manifest files](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/bundleresources/privacy_manifest_files) guide to create a **PrivacyInfo.xcprivacy** file.
```

- Let's be explicit about the [link as per writing style guide](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/guides/Expo%20Documentation%20Writing%20Style%20Guide.md#linking-to-other-docs)

</ConfigReactNative>

> You can identify the `NSPrivacyAccessedAPITypes` and `NSPrivacyAccessedAPITypeReasons` values by looking at the [Apple Developer Documentation](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/bundleresources/privacy_manifest_files/describing_use_of_required_reason_api).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can identify the `NSPrivacyAccessedAPITypes` and `NSPrivacyAccessedAPITypeReasons` values by looking at the [Apple Developer documentation](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/bundleresources/privacy_manifest_files/describing_use_of_required_reason_api).
```

> > **warning** Make sure you have updated your Expo SDK packages to latest versions for your SDK version using `npx expo install --fix`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **warning** Make sure you have updated your Expo SDK libraries to the latest versions for your SDK version using `npx expo install --fix`.
```

> ### Including required reasons for Expo SDK packages and other 3rd party libraries

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Including required reasons for Expo SDK packages and other third-party libraries
```

> As of now, Apple does not correctly parse all the **PrivacyInfo** files included by static CocoaPods dependencies (such as Expo SDK packages and other ecosystem packages). This means that you may need to include the required reasons for the APIs used by those dependencies in your app's **PrivacyInfo.xcprivacy** file or the configuration in your **app.json**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As of now, Apple does not correctly parse all the **PrivacyInfo** files included by static CocoaPods dependencies (such as Expo SDK packages and other ecosystem libraries). You may need to include the required reasons for the APIs used by those dependencies in your app's **PrivacyInfo.xcprivacy** file or the configuration in the **app.json**.
```

Let's prefer using libraries over packages as per our [writing style guide](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/guides/Expo%20Documentation%20Writing%20Style%20Guide.md#glossary:~:text=other%20technical%20details.-,Library,-An%20overarching%20name)

> All Expo SDK packages that use "required reason" APIs file have a **PrivacyInfo** file included in the package directory. [Here's an example file](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/packages/expo-application/ios/PrivacyInfo.xcprivacy) included with the `expo-application` package.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All Expo SDK packages that use "required reason" APIs file have a **PrivacyInfo** file included in the package directory. Here's [an example file](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/packages/expo-application/ios/PrivacyInfo.xcprivacy) included with the `expo-application` library.
```

> You can usually identify the required reasons for the APIs used by other 3rd party libraries by checking if the package you intend to use has a **PrivacyInfo.xcprivacy** file in the **node_modules/package_name/ios** directory. If it does, you can check the `NSPrivacyAccessedAPITypes` and `NSPrivacyAccessedAPITypeReasons` values in that file and copy those values to your configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can usually identify the required reasons for the APIs used by other third-party libraries by checking if the library you intend to use has a **PrivacyInfo.xcprivacy** file in the **node_modules/package_name/ios** directory. If it does, you can check the `NSPrivacyAccessedAPITypes` and `NSPrivacyAccessedAPITypeReasons` values in that file and copy those values to your configuration.
```

> As an alternative, Apple notifies developers after they submit a build with missing privacy manifest files or specific reasons, so you can wait until you receive a notification email from Apple and then include the required reasons listed in the email in your app's **PrivacyInfo.xcprivacy** file (if you don't use [CNG](/workflow/continuous-native-generation/)) or the configuration in your **app.json** file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As an alternative, Apple notifies developers after they submit a build with missing privacy manifest files or specific reasons. You can wait until you receive a notification email from Apple and then include the required reasons listed in the email in your app's **PrivacyInfo.xcprivacy** file (if you don't use [CNG](/workflow/continuous-native-generation/)) or the configuration in your **app.json** file.
```

## Testing the Privacy Manifest

> You can test the privacy manifest by building your app and submitting it, either to regular review or to TestFlight external review. Apple will notify you via email within a few minutes of submitting if you're missing any required reasons for the APIs used by your app.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can test the privacy manifest by building your app and submitting it, either through App Store review process or to TestFlight's external review. Apple will email you within a few minutes of submitting if your app is missing any required reasons for the APIs used.
```

- We can be concise with the last sentence. Also, let's clarify the that the review process is for App Store.
